\begin{frame}{Testing methodology}
\protect\hypertarget{testing-methodology}{}
During the preparation phase of the project we developed the \gls{e3}
framework which simplifies and automates the process of deploying
machines in different georgraphical regions, connecting them in an
overlay network and executing MPC computations between them, where each
machine represents a different party. During the thesis assignment we
will look at a number of solutions for ad hoc MPC sessions and compare
them in terms of performance, security and usability.

\begin{block}{Performance}
\protect\hypertarget{performance}{}
Each solution will be deployed using the \gls{e3} framework and the
performance will be quantitatively measured in terms of the speed of
execution of a number of pre-selected MPyC demos of different round
complexities and message sizes: - secret santa - high round complexity
\end{block}
\end{frame}

\begin{frame}{Testing methodology}
\protect\hypertarget{testing-methodology-1}{}
During the preparation phase of the project we developed the \gls{e3}
framework which simplifies and automates the process of deploying
machines in different georgraphical regions, connecting them in an
overlay network and executing MPC computations between them, where each
machine represents a different party. During the thesis assignment we
will look at a number of solutions for ad hoc MPC sessions and compare
them in terms of performance, security and usability.

\begin{block}{Performance}
\protect\hypertarget{performance-1}{}
Each solution will be deployed using the \gls{e3} framework and the
performance will be quantitatively measured in terms of the speed of
execution of a number of pre-selected MPyC demos of different round
complexities and message sizes: - secret santa - high round complexity
\end{block}
\end{frame}
